on a bit late this morning but uh we are
here okay interesting so this
actually we have parameters that seem to
solve
breakout expensive solve but it is a
solve and where's our Paro
front right
here this is not terrible right
here but uh we know that we can solve
this like this
fast so I think what we're going to
do hey
welcome not in
California if that's what you're asking
we'll be over the
summer
uh I think what we're going to do is
we're going to spend a good chunk of
time today just really trying to
understand some of the quirks with
sweeps and figuring out some
fixes yeah let's do that
this so here's Spencers
breakout and it looks like oh this is a
new sweep and he's
got ah no you see his new sweep here has
the same
issue so we're able to get good stuff
too but he's
uh yeah his old sweep not so much
maybe it's this
one yes
so right here this experiment I wanted
to check these
parameters versus
what we have
now okay so this is a 1024 en
run with a very high
batch
sense entropy
lowish
entropy uh a very weird
Lambda and not that weird I
guess
gamma actually this is not too
bad it's a little odd for breakout
because you'd expect these to be
higher but um I mean I could see it and
this learning rate
Low Max gradient
norm and then a very low value
fun ah and four update
Epoch we get the mini batch SI very low
mini batch
size and I
believe this is on r as well
150 million total time
steps this is supposed to work in like 5
minutes I believe
and in the
meantime I want to look at
the plots for this
okay so in
particular the value loss
here is very
high this is essentially no
value uh no value
function so
what happens to
GAE with no value
function should reduce to something
right
to
going to be a great Saturday I hope
so I'd really like to get uh some good
progress in on
this okay so here
is the advantage formula
right but hang on
yeah this is it
right so if both of these are set to a
constant then this essentially reduces
to discounted rewards right
and let's see how
ours so this is
this is our curve
here at 80
mil yeah
and yeah we get the same exploding value
loss so this
is these parameters do somehow
work possibly a bit unstable right we'll
see if it actually solves fully but um
these do
work policy law Spike
I'm trying to think why having a value
bu a value Base Line would actually hurt
learning hey welcome
mind dud this doesn't look like it
perfectly reproduces the original but
there's a lot of variant in
breakout so I'm pretty happy with this
overall um especially given this is a f
minute
run 717
yes you can see it's still going up
here now the question is why does this
happen do I need to look at my J
implementation
if I set this to 0.5 right it'll break
it we'll just
compare and then we'll look at J in the
meantime
so this gets called from here and it
gets called
on dun's values rewards gamma
Lambda
okay this is our
implementation e
where do they Define delta vs
is this the case hang on
I think that's how it
worked me look at
theirs poo Atari
so this is the original clean RL
implementation
so they say Delta
is rewards plus gamma next
values time next non okay minus value so
this is they have this
right yeah so they do this explicitly
and then um I mean these terms
cancel but they explicit do this and
then advantages of
T is equal
to Delta
plus
gamma it's not terminal
the one question is I am missing the
last
value
H if not
done oh hang
on is this similar
performance
wait now I'm
confused look this is actually a very
similar curve
right very Sim
curve how's the value
function oh but the value loss is still
up
here why would the value LW still be up
there e
are our rewards not well
scaled
e 7 minus
possibly the rewards just aren't
normalized
brick index
count
seven points
Max let me say so minus 3
* brick index
probably this gets this goes to
zero yeah so over seven
something didn't work here because these
numbers should no longer be the
same right
uh unless maybe it just hasn't hit
anything in the second row yet that's
weird
no those definitely shouldn't match
ah
we
go so uh this will change the hyper
parameters
obviously that are required but I just
want to see if this does anything with
the value function
also do we have reward
clipping or did they make it a rapper
yeah they do make it a
wrapper reward clipping is just you know
any reward above one goes to one any
reward less than negative one goes to
negative one you know clip the
reward so they do have reward clipping
and then clip reward
and I think they do this from
sp3 but let's see if it actually does
much uh they
do wait
clip by its
sign oh
it literally converts it to zero
okay
interesting interesting the curve looks
more stable maybe that's just
me why do you not use
I have super Maven for single line Auto
completes I mean I'd like they don't
really do anything for me I don't like I
don't use AI to write full blocks of
code it just writes bad
code I use uh super Maven for single
line completes so it's basically just a
typing buff more than anything
that's generally what I recommend as
well AI is not better than yeah exactly
I mean the researcher saying that it's
like it's so good for writing code I've
read their code they don't know how to
code plain and simple the vast majority
of research code is just awful like
truly truly awful like I don't even know
how you warp your head around writing
code that bad level of awful
so the value loss should be something
here
right is a value
loss oh look at that
High LEL program yep has ruined a
lot I
agree it's why so much of the puffer Li
code bases in C it's honestly just super
chill and
easy okay interestingly the looks like
the policy H our policy loss is still
good it's just the old
but everything else roughly
matches I mean the score is like a
little bit worse but again we
haven't uh we didn't retune the hyper
parameters or
anything we could also try clipping
which probably would be
closer to the
original we'll try clipping
next okay so here we have this one
okay
and actually there's no negative in
here like
this e
see with
clipping actually clipping makes sense
for this
game
potentially makes the value function way
easier to
learn oh
yeah e
and keep in mind we didn't even retune
hyper parameters or
anything how's the value function
learning is uh my
question
03 okay but that's on larger scaled
rewards than before so it's yeah it's is
very easy for it to learn
so we should probably just add reward
clipping to the PO implementation
instead of the N
see if this is stable or
not oh yeah
h
well that's nutty that's just the reward
clipping uh lack of reward clipping
screwing
you okay
so we can actually do this in probably
four minutes
now e
from Dr
wangs oh is this Lillian
Wang wasn't she
uh oh okay she joined she joined mea's
thing was it open Ai and join mir's
thing it looks like right oh co-founder
cool
yeah she has a nice blog I think this
is likes to write a
lot not too much only a few of them a
year it's cool
well she had open AI here I
forgot she just updated this like
several times that's funny
we use po for pretty much
everything honestly I should read
this but I'm pretty sure po just
generally does the
best overall
all well the thing is that like if you
understand what po does it's even
simpler then uh it looks at first
glance look how stable this
is
863 so now we're I'm going to try this
without a kneeling
I think this will break
it actually this would make a nice
post for
that e
yes the math in RL is pretty simple
in fact the whole algorithm like the big
term cancels out if uh Pi new is equal
to Pi old so you can actually see it's
literally just a clipping
term
e e
if the
defined it's literally like it's the
simplest thing possible you get a reward
right that can be some number you clip
it from negative -1 to one that's it
for
e
e e
here we
go what if the probability for
flipping no there's no probability
involved it anything it's literally it's
just you take the reward that comes out
of the environment whatever it is and
you just if it's zero it's zero if it's
I well to be fair that the way that they
do it in sp3 only works cuz they're
arcade games that only return integers
but you just take the you just take the
reward and if it's greater than one you
set it to one if it's less than negative
one you set it to negative one that's
it I don't know this guy I don't know if
this guy's a new follower or just a bot
that looks like
bot yeah no like you have to realize a
lot of the stuff in RL the math isn't
complicated okay the thing that makes it
hard is it's a really heavily
experimental empirical science that
requires a lot of engineering that's the
hard
part there's no fancy math anywhere I I
can guarantee you there isn't because
I'm doing this stuff and I don't know
the fanasy
math all
right oh look at that that's a nice
surprise this works without
analing this works without ailing lovely
it's a lot less stable but I think we
can still tune this within without an
knealing now and this will be a pretty
quick
job I've liked your Tweet yeah thanks
aning in RL okay another really simple
thing you take the so you're going to
train it for a certain number of steps
right you're you're going to Tain it for
100 million steps okay you just take uh
what's the what's the
term I think it's you just multiply the
learning rate by 1 minus one over the
current step over the total number of
steps so you just like you just take a
line and you multiply you know a line by
your learning value so it decays to Zero
by the time the run is over that's
it these techniques are all like on line
like on line middle school
math we don't have fantasy things
he we hit 1.7k
1.7k
Stars making undergrad student come in
he didn't get his objective
done
brutal I pretty much never went into
anywhere like in undergrad or today like
the thing is though I would always be I
would be doing I literally uh okay
here's a fun story so I'm I I
missed I missed the uh I missed having
lunch with Andrew ing because I was
doing research and they sent the they
sent the notification like in the
morning that oh yeah we have a lunch
today and I was doing research until
like 4: in the morning so I slept until
the afternoon
I mean I got stuff done in undergrad it
was like absolutely horribly
unhealthy I'm pretty sure combined I had
more like Monster Energy and like
whiskey than I had actual
water but I got stuff
done he's a professor at Stanford man
Andrew in NG no not yang
well this is pretty
good can we just YOLO something real
quick let me just yellow something real
quick
top
guys and isn't Andrew Yang the
politician Andrew Y is like one of the
older ml
people I think he like one of uh one of
the first papers I read of his that I
thought was really cool is he was one of
the first people to just go buy a whole
bunch of uh go buy a whole bunch of
Nvidia gpus wire him up and train big
neural
Nets so that was
cool I remember was in high school when
that was uh that research was
new I don't know I emailed him about
working in his lab in high school he
didn't reply but uh faay did so I ended
up working in Fay's lab
um in high school so I was doing
like various computer vision
things e
I don't think the YOLO run is
uh is going to do it we'll see
uh
maybe maybe it's just the genius you
know hyper parameter intuition we'll see
I I doubt it though I probably have to
redo a full tuning
run I think we're also going to take the
reward out of the en rapper we're going
to take the reward out of the
environment and we're gonna put it into
the algorithm I
think
yeah
fortunate earning curve is so wonky on
these
this I so the guess here was that
because it was working better with the
kneeling before maybe I could just cut
the learning rate in half and that would
be good
enough probably not I mean I'll let the
full thing
run it's not doing too
bad manual hyperparameter
tuning e
generalized Advantage
estimation I think link to this thing
right but if you're looking to get a lot
of RL information pretty darn
quick we have the quickart guide on the
uh on the blog just on buffer. it's a
pretty quick read and it links all the
papers and this is
it for
okay so it ends up at about the same
spot so not
terrible probably better with an
kneeling
I wonder about pong pong should have a
kneeling as well
where is this guy
we'll leave this one for
now e
okay so this is something we can do
now let's go mess with the
uh the
environment cuz we don't want to
actually clip
clipping so I'm clipping in the N now
but I'm actually don't want to do that
so I'm going to move it into the
environment and then we're going to
rerun it just to make sure it works and
then I think we should be
good for
I mean we have all these graphs the uh
the green one is the reward clipped
one you can see though there's not a
huge gap with the other ones obviously
it's going to be smoother with a
kneeling isn't it just outputting one or
two the value function value functions
contain continuous it's trying to
predict the reward the rewarded breakout
is uh from 0 to
7 so if you have if you get a seven
reward and you predict zero then you get
a a squared error of
49 e
so that's nice though that means that we
can run
um we can run our sweeps way
faster was that now we're I uh I did it
in the environment to begin with but I
think we're just going to add it to
clean puff Al for
now
for e
see how that
goes good time to remind folks to start
the puffer really helps us out got to
keep up the puffer growth
how do you not have a get up
account if you do like any code on
anything ah don't you guys have to write
a little bit of code in E once in a
while
there we go
I write code then how do you not have a
how do you not have a GitHub account
like
what s crazy
all right so this is nice and consistent
right looking at how rewards are being
set plus one it's clipped it's just
clipped at the
moment I tried normalizing over seven it
did a little worse possibly you just
retune hyper parameters and that could
do better um
but the clipping one is very
effective I mean for that game it makes
sense right like you're just trying to
break the bricks and it makes it really
easy to learn the value function so
that's probably why this is such a
strong Baseline yeah there are obviously
cases in which you're going to need to
have it not just be clipped in which
case you should do some better
normalization this is pretty decent
let's add reward clipping
and this doesn't mess with episode
return
perfect okay
so we can now keep this this is good
oh
Haw no I don't know him
okay did you manage to solve it oh I
just used I used your old optimal
parameters
Spencer so here I ran we have a few
points of data
here but I I set the value fun I set the
VF coefficient back up to 0.5 so I
tested all these things and that wasn't
it uh aeling I got it to mostly work
with or without a kneeling it was really
the reward the reward scale was the
issue so here's the
sweep uh the solve time is like four
minutes with those parameters now we
haven't run the Sweep with reward
clipping cuz I just found that out but
this is what protein does uh with the
old parameters where it takes forever to
solve so you can see it doesn't take
very many experiments for it to figure
out a a high scoring solve now it runs
it for very long here if we check the
parito
front yeah it's doing crazy things with
gamma as well if we check the yeah it's
one update Epoch uh if we check the pero
front
like 1300
is it looks
like but this is again without the
clipping or
anything so now what we can do is we can
rerun this uh we can rerun this sweep in
fact I may as well I may as well just
put that on in the background right
Dev symbol
why is it on dev simple
oh I forgot that I did
that probably just merge these
up e
this looks
good e
okay so this will now
run two minute run
perfect so now we've actually gotten
this back to a point where it'll uh it
will run in a reasonable amount of time
for our
sweeps as pong and break
out we obviously want to start running
this on way more environments
though I got box four back as well so I
can plug that in today
well so nothing wrong with J
implementation whatever do we do next
what's a good environment
if those new changes are in Dev yeah I
didn't actually have to change the
breakout file at all so you can just PR
that and uh yeah the continuous
continuous versus discret would be a big
thing I also just added the latest sweep
algorithm to Dev it's simpler uh and you
have to be a little careful if you set
the total time steps Max too high it
will push up too high so you be a little
careful with that but it's a it's like
way more stable uh than the more
complicated one so I'm trying to think
what uh which one of these we should do
now maybe snake or rware
did I run this on the wrong
machine I think I
did hang on I'm
confused how I manage to do that
running I don't know what I would is
running but I'm running
something clipping changes are not
needed I added it into clean RL yes I
just added it to the demo
file I think that's better because we
should actually have something we should
have some sort of test right to make
sure that we can handle variable rewards
even if it's just by
clipping so that we don't get screwed on
that by like forgetting any sort of
normalization so breakout will be a good
check for that
score is sakeel perfect
snake RNN is
recurrent this doesn't have a policy
name
1.3 million SPS by the
way that's
something
e
e e
interesting score goes back
down 200 million steps
see what these guys do
uh oh is it
stuck might be
stuck
e e
something is screwy here
so uh we'll have to figure that see what
the policy looks
like all right there isn't a simple
number
e3b thing is
obnoxious I think it's a bad
method but we will see
uh I don't know if you should uh we're
playing with it for other purposes but I
don't think it's likely we'll adopt it
into puffer at
all it seems to me that just all like
the exploration lit in RL sucks and none
of it works and all it does is slow your
code down a bunch
I mean it's
like that's kind of how it was
frankly that's kind of how it was a
while
ago like in 2018 it was kind of not a
promising area and uh it seems like it's
pretty much stayed the same it's just
not a particularly promising
area and a lot of the research doesn't
make much sense okay so the are fine but
you can see they're biased to the left
here we'll figure that
out we should probably have like a
single agent snake version of this as
well
huh e
question mark what
that looks like a Cuda Cuda screw up
right for
equivalent no it's equivalent to the
reward you're not clipping the return
you're clipping the
reward is this actually an issue
hang
on something is really
oh that's yeah that's totally broken
has broken my
terminal
nine okay was the max observation
for for
snake
colors what
plus
four
e yeah that's going to break it
huh well we'll do this for now
how come on how
oh hold on I am
dumb yeah this is
seven all right that was off by off by
two error it's a new one
okay
damn it this is why I have to keep
restream open because I can't delete the
damn
messages if I uh if I don't have it
open it should show you the history but
it doesn't
this is
irritating
e e
thing is so incredibly [__]
obious for
at all the stuff that you have to
pass
crazy do some experiments
that's insanely
obnoxious that it like it adds [__] to
the to the policy like
that just going to do this for
now and we'll see how this
goes
okay e
and now we can actually
see
for
e
e e
perfect
mil uh we
want
587 288
there we
go and uh I don't think we
need anything else
de enough
steps
great so I'm going to go get
lunch and then I'm going to be back
working
on getting this up on up and running on
more ends we really want this to be to
the point that we can just crank out
experiments
automatically uh I may or may not go
also install the new machine while I'm
there just so we have one extra to be
able to run stuff on in the event thanks
folks um if you want to check out the
project puff. start on GitHub join the
Discord follow on a all that good stuff
and I'll be back in a bit